---
title: 'Unpaid salaries'
metaTitle: 'Unpaid salaries'
metaDesc: 'Unpaid salaries: rights, obligations, lawsuit'
socialImage: images/salarii-neplatite.png
date: '2024-10-02'
tags:
  - arrears, salary arrears, unpaid employee rights, court action payment of wages, damages non-payment of wages
---

The salary represents compensation for the work performed by the employee based on the individual employment contract. For the work performed based on the individual employment contract, each employee has the right to a salary expressed in money. The salary includes the basic salary, allowances, increments and other additions.

The salary is paid in cash at least once a month, on the date established in the individual employment contract, in the applicable collective employment contract or in the internal regulations if the case. The salary is paid directly to the holder by bank transfer.

The payment of the salary is proven by signing the salary statements, as well as by any other supporting documents that demonstrate the payment to the entitled employee.

The employer does not have the right to carry on any withholding of employees' wages in the absence of a final court decision or other express legal grounds.

The unjustified delay in the payment of the salary or its non-payment may result in the obligation of the employer to pay damages to repair the damage caused to the employee.

The unreserved acceptance of a part of the salary rights or the signing of the payment documents in such situations cannot have the meaning of a waiver by the employee of the salary rights due to him in their entirety, according to the legal or contractual provisions.

The action regarding salary rights, as well as regarding the damages resulting from the failure to execute in whole or in part of the obligations regarding the payment of salaries, is exempt from stamp duty. Regarding territorial jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the right to choose between the following Courts: the one in the district of domicile, residence, or workplace.
