---
title: 'Resignation'
metaTitle: 'Resignation'
metaDesc: 'Resignation: rights, obligations, lawsuit'
socialImage: images/demisia.jpg
date: '2024-30-01'
tags:
  - resignation, register of the resignation, reasons of the resignation, termination of employment contract
---

Resignation represents the unilateral act of will of the employee who, through a written notification, communicates to the employer the termination of the individual employment contract, after the completion of a notice period.

The employer cannot refuse to accept the resignation of an employee, according to the law he has the obligation to register the resignation of the employee.

The employee is not obliged to give reasons for his resignation.

The individual employment contract continues to produce all its effects until the notice period is fulfilled.

The notice period can be established by the parties through the individual employment contract or, as the case may be, the collective labor contracts, respecting the maximum legal limits imposed by the Labor Code, i.e. no more than 20 working days for employees with executive functions and no more than 45 of working days for employees holding management positions.

If the individual employment contract is suspended during the notice period, the notice period will be suspended accordingly.

The employer has the right to waive the benefit of notice in which case individual employment contract terminates from the date of waiver.

In the event that the employer does not fulfill the obligations assumed by the individual employment contract (non-payment of wages), the employee may resign without notice.
